Honors Thesis Proposal
Jacob Smith
November 2013

SciSci Notes: Simplifying Research

As the amount of information available to students has burgeoned immensely in the past 20-30 years with the advent of computers, methods of organizing research have not kept pace. My proposal is to continue working on an existing project of mine that is designed to both simplify the process of researching, as well as create an easy-to-use interface through which students can find a new perspective on existing information. The project in its current state can be found at http://SciSciNotes.com. It was originally designed due to a personal desire to easily correlate information with its source in a simple, searchable manner for a Dance 100 course. Many of the sources I looked at had similar information and it was difficult to remember which notes I had corresponded with which source. This inspired the initial need for the project.

The proposed final outcome is a website that eases the process of research by allowing notes to be correlated with the source, as well as searchable. In addition, the site will increase the ease with which notes can be accessed and sorted, giving students a greater command over their research. It will also be designed to encourage an increase in the quality of research by various means, such as easing the process through which works are cited and possibly directing students to academically tested databases, websites, and print sources. Furthermore, the website will implement a user interface that is simple, uncluttered, and designed to streamline the work process. Additional interfaces may be added to the program for it to integrate with other services (such as Dropbox, iCloud, EndNote, Google Docs, email, etc.) depending on, primarily, what will actually be of benefit to the end user and dictated secondarily by availability of time and resources. For a final Author's Statement, I will provide a 7-10 page recount of events that took place from both a technical and business perspective. I will begin with a brief overview in laymen's terms, followed by a more in-depth technical analysis. 

The target demographic of this project is high school and college students who are doing research based projects, though it may also include professors and anyone else who does a substantial amount of research, again depending on the guidance of Jonathan Huer and Gunnar Huffman in addition to time constraints. From this project, I expect others to benefit from the final product that will be created by meeting a need present in the process of researching. Furthermore, all code and other assets (to the best of my ability) will be released under an Open Source license (the specifics of which have yet to be completely determined) so that other students, both at this university and elsewhere, can look at the code and analyze what, and more importantly how, it accomplishes its stated goal.

Research for this project will be a combination of technical documentation, taking advice from different professionals in the field (most likely members of the Indy Ruby Brigade, an Indianapolis based computer programming club based on the primary language of this project, Ruby), as well as selected readings on business, entrepeneruship, programming, and problem solving from both print and online sources.

While this project does not directly relate to my major, Spanish, it does align with my goals for employment immediately following graduation from Ball State. As such, I believe it will be an incredibly valuable experience to have real-world problems to tackle and solve, as well as a great opportunity to further advance my understanding of computer programming, computer science, and user support. 

Moving forward, I know this project can become a much more usable service through the guidance of Jonathan Huer and Gunnar Hoffman, both in the Emerging Technologies Department. Combining not just experience in computer programming and other technical aspects of the work, but also the business, legal, and academic aspects, I am certain that this project will be a very worthwhile learning experience.

Overall, I am very excited about this project. I feel extremely confident that through the mentorship of Jonathan Huer and Gunnar Hoffman, I will be able to create a project that is indicative of my current state academically, personally, and professionally. This project will hopefully be the first major stepping stone into a career focused on computer programming and solving real problems through the use of technology.
